women children elderly Holocaust
survivals it's beyond my comprehension
to be able to imagine what they're
thinking beond my comprehension and the
last thing I heard was my youngest who's
12 saying don't take me I'm too young
and that was it the line went off and
they were gone you know a whole world
breaks down you don't understand you you
don't get it you said she was on the
festival what what happened why why do
people behave like this none of us want
to leave in a world
where elders and babies and
children and
civilians get
[Music]
kidnapped welcome to the show nearly two
weeks after Hamas brutal incursion into
Israel the extent of the Havoc they wed
is anything but clear today Israeli
authorities adjusted the number of
hostages taken to over 200 advising
families that it's likely to grow even
further the military has vowed to do
everything possible to bring the
hostages home and with more than 40
nationalities represented among the
abducted that mission is receiving a lot
of international support the head of the
United Nations too has called for the
immediate and unconditional release of
the
hostages on a wall outside the Israeli
defense Ministry in tele Eve and on
walls across Israel the images of those
taken and
missing the Israel government must Focus
first of all on doing whatever is
necessary in order to release the
hijacked
people in the October 7th attack Hamas
terrorists killed
indiscriminately and they kidnapped
civilians Soldiers the elderly disabled
and children so many
children
now the hostages are somewhere in the
Gaza Strip or under it in the untold
hundreds of kilometers of tunnels Hamas
has
built now there'll be lots of effort put
into
coordinating identifying locating where
the hostages are being kept as much as
possible and of course in the background
there's talk of potentially hostage
rescue attempts but these are very very
uh dangerous s with not always a
guaranteed chance of
success what Hamas recognizes Scott
Walker says is that Israel has
consistently prioritized the safe return
of their
citizens
Shalom case in point the 19-year-old
Israeli soldier held by Hamas for 5
years Israel got him back by giving up
more than a thousand Palestinian
prisoners to Hamas they always want to
take captives they know what captives
can do one Israeli soldier gilad Shalit
and that's the price that Israel is
willing to pay the hostages ruthlessly
taken on October 7th and likely guarded
now by some of the Hamas kidnappers face
a lengthy captivity and indeed the
threat of death from the
captors the families of those hostages
are shaken and Afraid desperate for any
word and hopeful that the images of
their sisters brothers parents
grandparents remain in the Forefront of
Israel's moves against
Hamas I'm now joined by two relatives of
four of the German hostages taken by
Hamas it's Ron Roman whose sister was
kidnapped and ADI zesi whose aunt and
uncle have been taken thank you so much
for joining us on tww today let's start
with you Ron when did you last hear from
your sister and her sister-in-law who's
also been taken by Hamas where were they
actually I was in h South Africa with my
father um when we uh saw the last
message from my sister that says that
they are all right with the picture of
her and her three year three years old
uh kid Gein and um at that point
actually it's kind of weird to say it
but with that it's it's uh usual they
they have a routine of alarms getting
into the shelter so we wasn't very
afraid um
but uh as the time passed on we realized
that this is very different situation
and this is unusual extremely unusual
and
um since 10:00 a.m. at Saturday
morning we haven't heard from her uh
what about you AI what what was the last
you knew of your uncle and your
aunt H so like Ron said on Saturday
morning we all woke woke up from missile
alarms again not something too
unusual but then I heard on the
TV that terrorists have broken into
Israel and our Massacre are murdering a
members of the kibuts near the Gaza
strep and then I hear that my cousin is
crying on TV saying that her dad ER was
pictured in Gaza H that's how I found
out you found it on TV yes and and they
were in B kibuts one of the sites of of
the worst
kber ER took a hard hit in this terror
attack
114 uh deaths for now and that number
just keeps
rising and a lot of hostages also from
the
kibuts and it's it's very concerning
it's and um my mom is from the kibuts B
she grew up there it's such a nice place
I used to go there all the time and just
seeing those pictures from the
kibuts just feels like a nightmare feels
like a whole movie Now You unfortunately
share this fate with with many other
families in Israel right now does it
give you any sort of Solace that you can
share this Agony that you're in this
together well there I will say there
there is a lot of solidarity right now H
between the people of Israel a lot of
people are volunteering to help OT of
people were called up to the Army um
when before the seventh of October we
were divided in Israel ER for politic
issues but right now I think it's safe
to say that we are all in this
together uh it doesn't matter right now
about politics we just want to to get
this over with to bring our hostage back
home and
uh to live peacefully yeah and it's a
top priority of the government to bring
the hostages home have they been in
touch with you and your families are
they keeping you in the loop are they
keeping you informed do they know
anything about where your family members
are um I think that uh our government
has
uh everyone was really in shocked nobody
expect this attack so it took some time
for the government to understand and I
think that even right now they don't
really understand uh we don't know the
the final numbers of the people who got
murdered of the people who got kidnapped
so until now there is a lot of Unknowing
um the government is trying to reach us
and uh keep us updated but they don't
know my sister uh still uh in a status
of missing although I'm sure that she's
kidnapped I I know it we were uh at the
point that she was uh last seen and my
brother for five days was in the war
field and looking for her no signs of
blood and no signs of fight so for sure
they just re kidnapped her after she run
away
and we're waiting for information and
we're waiting for a sign of life and
that this is also the reason that we are
here in Germany because we really do
need every help to to to know what is
their condition yeah your sister is a
German citizen and your uncle is a
German citizen your aunt is a German
citizen what kind of support have you
been receiving from the German
government since you arrived
here um we arrived here after almost
week that uh we were in this insane as
you said movie uh in Israel and we just
decided that we need Germany by our side
and actually not by our side with our
side because we are a a German citizens
and Germany should be a real active here
and a a real actor not only a third
party this is a matter also of Germany
so we came here and I have to say really
we already met uh the chancellor and uh
Mr book and a lot of people in the uh
Parliament and we really feel a lot of
support and commitment to us to to help
our loved ones and I really do hope that
they will do more than everything that
they can uh first of all to bring us a
sign of life and then right after then
get them released yeah now there is talk
about an imminent ground offensive of
course also with the aim of of freeing
the hostages how do you feel about that
because it comes with a lot of danger of
course um well I I don't know what to
say because I'm I'm not familiar with
what the actions should be all I know is
I want Israel and Germany as well do
anything they can to bring out the
hostages uh we don't we don't know what
it takes but uh I'm sure uh that you
will do anything it takes do you feel
hurt at this point um well in Germany
I've been here for two days and all
we've received his love and support and
all
the and the
politicians we met and also the public H
love that we're receiving H it really is
comforting ER to be here although there
are
still anti-semitic actions here in
Berlin but that's that's everywhere in
the world right now yeah because we we
we are not safe everywhere not in Israel
and not outside of
Israel that is a very unfortunate
reality um if you had a message for your
sister right now what would it
be the only thing that
um I think that the only thought that my
sister has in her mind right now that uh
she doesn't know that Gan is alive her
daughter her daughter yeah she doesn't
know that she with her father uh succeed
to hide and got back to the Army for so
this is the only thing that I would tell
her because because I know that she
knows that I love her I know that she
knows that every one of us or her family
is doing everything that we can to get
her back so I don't need to tell that
yeah oh what about
you I I just hope they're both safe I
hope they're
together H I'm really concerned about my
aunt as well because rise has a
autoimmune disease and she takes a lot
of pills medic H medically a lot of
pills every day
and um it's been two weeks now that she
hasn't received any medical attention I
assume we don't know and that's why we
need the the help of humanitary aid for
the hostages as soon as possible because
we don't know how much time she has left
without those
uh without those Medicals their time is
running out this is not a event uh that
happened in the 7th uh of October this
is still
uh were still under attack my sister R
also and at least uh 200 more adapt
uh kidnapped um people they are still
under attack and I also would like to
say that this is not an issue about
Israel and Palestine really it's not
this is about Terror and the liberal
World they weren't um
started a war against our army because
of a matter of ideology ideologic uh
issues this is innocent people
women children old people ill people
that are now in a war zone
just they need help and they haven't
done
anything
bad and their time is running out
ADI thank you so much for sharing your
story all the best to you and your
families thank you thank
you we can now speak to Orie slonim he's
an experienced hostage negotiator who's
working with the families of the
abducted in Israel Mr slum good to have
you on the day you have dealt with
hostage situations for decades but this
is unlike anything Israel has ever seen
before isn't
it is UN unprecedented uh
presidential event not only in Israel in
the history of Israel but I believe in
worldwide I never I I can never remember
or heard of such an event with this
scale with this situation of having such
a event within war and having in
captivity um old ladies old men above
the age of 80
um babies one of them I believe is
couple of days baby and uh
citizens were in a festival in music
festival and uh and soldiers which is
more it's regular within War but all the
rest is something unprecedented it's a
real a real kidnapping you
know now that you mentioned you know the
the the elderly the babies the toddlers
uh the f goers why did Hamas take them
what is their plan with
them I don't know I think I think I
don't know I can I can think of of their
desire to to hit
Israel they are telling that they would
like to smash the state of Israel out of
this ground and they they are a they are
a bunch of people
I believe who are worse much worse than
Isis we've seen efforts by Qatar who are
of course very close to Hamas to have at
least Women and Children released is
that a Reason for
Hope uh first of all I I'm always hoping
otherwise I could I couldn't stay in
this job so many years H but uh you know
it's a it's awful for for our
understanding that uh they took such a
big big number of
hostages they took girls and raped them
they they took people and they some of
them they they're preventing medicines
from old people may preventing food from
babies of from couple of days until they
have 30 babies there yeah and they
killed they killed many they killed many
people who don't know the exact number
but they kill in in In Cold Blood like I
can tell you like like the Nazis yeah
and time is is of the essence here you
have been involved in many hostage
negotiations in your experience what's
the toughest part in negotiating with
Palestinian
militants
first of all I think that the the most
awful situation in any kidnapping any
hostages taking is their family that are
living with the uncertain
uncertainty H they don't know their
their faith they don't know about them
especially the old people and the babies
but I can tell you that
uncertainty is the worst situation of
any human
being how do you manage their their
fears and and expectations because they
they pin lots of hopes on the people
trying to to free their loved ones so
how how go about that not not let them
down offer them support but also not
create false
hopes are you talking about the families
here
yes ER it's our main main task and we
are very experienced ER how to take how
to take care and how to treat and how to
try to ease their life but there is one
thing that you cannot you cannot deal is
the the uncertainty how it will end so
you're living the whole day and night
with you know with this uncertainty and
I I use this word a lot because if if
you know that even the friend French
poet said once that the uncertainty is
much more
wealth than the ugliest
certainty if you have certainty if
somebody gives you some some news about
your health and he said look you're in a
very bad situation it's quite final you
try to find the better doctors better
pills you have some
hope but if you live in uncertainty for
for years sometimes times then you don't
sleep you don't you don't even breathe
it's something which is I believe the
the unhuman the most unhuman feeling at
our
lives L thank you so much for those
insights and your
time